---
layout: post
title: "Tuberculosis Visualization"
date: 2017-02-26 14:51:00
categories: project
---

A D3 visualization of the change in tuberculosis cases worldwide

{% include posts/2017-02-26-tuber-viz/viz.html %}

Note: This visualization makes use of HTML5 and has only been tested on Google Chrome with a desktop computer

This weeks Information Visualization homework was to visualize a dataset 
containing the number of cases of tuberculosis in a country from 2000 - 2015. 
The instructor wanted to know if there was a region in which tuberculosis moved into 
another over time. The homework is due on Monday (2/27) so we will see next week 
what I received.

The visualization was written using D3.js and Datamaps for D3. 

Data format was the main issue for this viz. Datamaps expected a json with the country code 
and color and I was given a csv file with country, year, and value. 
Another issue with this viz was Information Quality, the raw data provided 
had country names that did not translate into codes (e.g. "Venezula (") and 
some countries had missing year / num cases values. To solve the IQ problem, 
I simply removed all countries with an invalid name and left missing year / num cases 
values untouched because this is an Information Visualization class, not a 
Data Science or Information Quality class.

I wrote a python script to preprocess the data. It calculated the diff for 
every year pair (e.g. (2015, 2014) and (2014, 2013)), binned the values 
into colors, and then converted the country names into ISO 3166 valid codes. 
The script output valid json, so I could easily copy and paste it into the visualization.
